Hi, it's Matt with Equity Predict
Analytics. In this video, we're going to
be building upon the 5, 11, and 18 EMA
crossover trading strategy by adding uh
RSI divergence to help create a stronger
signal uh and help uh us build more
confidence in uh taking a trigger to get
into or to get out of a position in QQQ,
QLD, or TQQQ. Now, we're going to be
starting in uh 2024. Uh just picked a
random particular point in time. We all
know how it turned out 2024 as well as
the memorable 2025 so far. Uh but in
this particular case, we're going to go
be going bar by bar for a few uh a few
weeks here in 2024 uh to show you how
this trading strategy works. Just
briefly, if you're enjoying uh some of
the content we're providing, please do
subscribe to the channel. You can also
head over to our website
equipppredict.com.
Uh we've got a lot of information over
there regarding market forecasting.
[music]
Uh you can sign up for our free uh
quarterly alert. We uh forecast rather.
You can read some articles that are open
to some readers. Uh and then we also
have our uh subscription model you can
read about as well as our proprietary
forecasting model. So it's over at
equipppredict.com.
So up on the screen here uh we have the
daily chart of QQQ. Uh and I'll go
through each of the components so you
know how to set up your own chart uh on
your end with just about any software
you've got whether it's a free you know
Yahoo or Trading View software or
proprietary uh software platform. They
all have these standard uh technical
indicators. [music]
Uh so the hot pink line is the 5 EMA.
The red line is the 11 EMA and the blue
line is the 18 EMA. So again, fastest uh
medium speed and then you've got your
slowest um exponential moving average
here, which the blue and that's the 18.
On the bottom here, we got an RSI uh
which uh let me just kind of zoom out a
little bit. It's got an overbought and
oversold area. Above 70 is uh personally
I believe above 80 would be in this
particular environment. Uh obviously
given the the volatility [music] we've
seen over the past five, six, seven
years. uh above 80 would be overbought.
Um and below 25 or so um would be
oversold. But nonetheless, um we do have
the RSI setting of 11. Most standard
platforms have an RSI setting of 14. Uh
some like to use a 12. Um in this
particular example, we're going to be
using an RSI 11 just to catch the faster
turns uh a bit as we as [music] we move
forward. And so what we're going to do
is we're just going to start right here.
Uh again, we I understand and how 2024
was a bullish year, but I I don't recall
exactly every twist and turn uh and I've
hidden everything uh going forward. Uh
so I don't exactly know what's going to
play out uh day by day, week by week
here. [music] So one of the things I
just want to point out a few things that
you should note beforehand uh if you're
sort of new to trading, one one of the
things you want to kind of uh be
cognizant cognizant of is when the price
action gets above uh stretched away from
an 18 [music] like this, that creates an
air gap. So, uh, ignore the the five and
the 11 for just a moment. You're going
to see the price action is up here. The
18, although it is pointed in the
northeasterly direction, which is
bullish. All right, you've got a big air
gap between the price action uh and the
18. Okay, so the risk is high at this
particular point that there could be a
pullback uh or some sort of sell-off.
Um, this in itself, the fact that you've
got a divergence, a bearish divergence
between the RSI. Okay. So, you've got a
uh a peak here and a peak here and then
you've got a lower high here and a high
and a um higher high just before that.
So, that's a obviously a bearish
divergence. That's a sell signal, not
necessarily a sell trigger. Okay? Uh I'd
recommend you go through some channels
and uh uh some other uh trading channels
and do some homework on uh the
difference between a sell signal and a
sell trigger just briefly. They're not
the same. A sell trigger is when say for
example uh price action breaks this
uptrend line. Okay, this is a very
short-term uptrend line, but
nonetheless, it is an uptrend. Okay, if
price action breaks below that and you
also have the divergence that preceded
it, that's going to be your sell signal.
You want to liquidate a position if it
lands here. All right, so sorry for the
drawings. I'll just kind of clear these
out so you can get uh back to the
charts. So, what we're going to do is
we're going to move bar by bar forward
and just watch carefully. What we're
doing is at this particular point in
time, we may be in a position. Okay,
we'll pretend we're in a position and
we're looking to liquidate our positions
uh if there's a sell trigger. All right,
so okay, right away I hit the first bar
moving forward and we have a sell
trigger because this uptrend and price
action is broken. We have the
divergence, the bearish divergence here
between RSI and price action and we have
the five and the 11 curling downwards.
Um for me, that's good enough to be a
sell trigger. Okay, because we have the
signal back here, trigger here. So we
would be in cash at this particular
point. So, let's move forward bar by bar
and see what's going to happen. Ideally,
we would love to see uh maybe a
potential uh bullish divergence, the
RSI, which I hope we get to uh in the
next few bars. Let's just see how it
pans out. So, let's move forward.
So, we have a five that has now crossed
below uh the the 11 and they both downs
sloping. The 18 is still uh pointing
northwards, which is bullish. Okay, so
in a longer term pattern, let me zoom
out a little bit. From a longerterm
perspective, obviously the price action
is in an uptrend. The 18 uh didn't even
flatten out here. Stayed bullish and the
18 is still pointing in a northeasterly
direction even though the five and 11
have curled downwards which is bearish.
So we still have one bullish signal but
too bearish. So for me that's uh
definitely just st still standing aside
waiting for a long entry. So let's move
forward another bar and see what
happens. Okay, so the five and 11 have
crossed below and the RSI has moved into
oversold territory. So, we should at
least expect some type of bounce. Uh, it
could bounce up just a bit and curl
downwards or it could bounce up with a
crossover and head to the northeast for
a long entry. Let's just see how it
plays out. Okay, so the five and 11 are
still pointing downwards. Uh RSI down
here starting to curl upwards.
Okay, so it's pretty strong uh buy
candle, but we don't have any crossover
yet. But the five and 11 are pointing
upwards and they're threatening to cross
back up above the 18. RSI really isn't
telling us much at this particular point
in time. Whenever you have an indicator
really of any kind that's floating
around the middle areas, uh if it's a
bound indicator like here, the RSI for
example, um indicators really work best
at their extremes. So whenever you're
getting these readings up here or
readings down here, that's when they're
most helpful. when they're sort of
meandering in this middle area here, uh
it really uh isn't so helpful. So, let's
just keep moving forward and see if we
can find a long entry.
All right, so we're starting to curl
upwards. The uh still a second uh day of
strong buying and we don't have a
crossover yet of the five above the 11.
Okay, so the five has crossed above the
11. Okay. Uh RSI really isn't giving us
a whole lot of information in this
limited kind of uh small little area
here. If we zoom out, maybe it'll tell
us more, but we're we're kind of trying
to stick into we're trying to stay in a
in a micro environment here uh to help
us on a day-to-day trading uh strategy.
So, let's uh see if it in my in my
opinion, if it does cross over, that
would be a buy. the five starts to cross
over the the uh the 18 which is still uh
sloping upwards.
All right. So you can take a long
position here. Now if I zoom in you're
going to see that the five is now curled
upwards. It has crossed above the 18 uh
the 11 which is the red and the 18 which
is the blue. So this would be an entry.
It's not uncommon for in this particular
case for price action to do something
like this that some folks uh and some uh
teachers out there call it the one two
three. You have price action that goes
does this, comes up, comes back down to
kind of test this area, and then off the
races. Sometimes folks will advise
entering here on that pullback after you
get a nice strong uh signal to buy right
here in a potential uh first trigger
that you may not take, but you want to
take that second trigger here. Um, this
may not do that. I don't know if it's
going to do that, but again, we're still
kind of watching RSI, which didn't tell
us much about uh you know, this was just
too too quick of a dip to get any kind
of uh bullish divergence to happen here.
Let me just clear these off.
All right. So, what we'll do is we'll
consider taking a long position here and
see what happens. And again, we want to
set our stops down here. Uh in this
particular case, this would have been a
long entry at FA 409. We could set our
stops just below here, maybe at 390,
392,
and we're going to keep moving forward.
All right, these are b relatively
bullish candles. Whenever you have a
candle like this that um where where the
uh price action is repelled off the
bottom and pushed upwards to a hammer
candle. If you're in a long ent
bullish candle. All right, these are
flattening out, potentially threatening
to drop down. Uh but let's just keep
watching. Okay, so here we are. We're
off to the races.
And there we go. So, at this particular
point in time, you're starting to get
that air gap that developed. Again, if
remember, I talked about that earlier.
Uh you're going to see that price action
is all the way up here. And here's the
18. Okay, which is likely going to start
curling up. So, this is already an air
gap by itself. So at this particular
point in time, if you're not in the
position, it would be a little bit too
risky to take on a position just
technically speaking uh in this
particular case because you have such a
a an extension of price action away from
that 18 moving average.
So let's keep moving forward. You might
want to consider taking profits at this
time or raising your stops uh just
slightly higher to maybe just below this
candle right here, which would be 403.
All right, there's that air gap. Very
extended. Okay, air price action up here
at 423 and the moving average of 18 is
down at 408 now. So, you want to be
moving your stops up as you go along.
And we're still watching RSI. Not
telling us anything. This is actually uh
this is a um I I consider it a a
confirmation. If you look here, you're
going to see the RSI is actually moving
upwards
in the same direction as the price
action. So, that's bullish, okay?
because you're getting sort of that
confirmation telling you that the price
action to the north to the upside is
genuine.
So, let's move forward.
Okay, some profit taking or potential
selling coming in, but the moving
averages are still pointed to the
northeast. RSI is still looking strong.
Just because it's overbought does not
mean uh that you're going to have a
sell-off, okay? Uh it can be there can
be some profit taking, but this is a
good sign. It's a bullish sign. I think
everyone gets sort of confused that just
because you're in the RSI area of what's
considered overbought means that you're
going to have a sell-off. No, it means
it's bullish. So, that's a good thing.
So, let's keep moving forward and we'll
just do a couple more examples and then
we'll call it and head out to the uh to
today, November 7th, 2025 to see where
we're at.
All right, so a little bit of a
divergence right there potentially. You
could argue maybe not. Uh price action
is also confirming uh that RSI is
getting weak. But again, this is just
likely a uh a profit taking selloff
right here. So, let's keep moving
forward. The five is starting to turn
downwards. Uh again, you have another
one of those uh trend line breaks here.
Okay, so this could be a sell uh
trigger. This is your sell signal that
you're so extended and this is your
trigger. So, you might want to go into
cash this particular point in time.
We'll see how it works out.
So, again, it's bullish. So, let me kind
of move forward and see if we can't get
a signal that talks to us here that I
can talk I can walk through. So, you do
have divergence already. So, the price
is starting to rise here.
Let me just make a line and I'll point
it out and then we'll zip forward. So,
you've got sort of price action that's a
little bit higher over here, a little
bit higher peak. And this is your RSI
that is now diverging again. So, again,
bearish sell signal.
Okay.
So, here you go.
So, what we're doing is we are watching
the price action starting to lose some
momentum. You can see the RSI all the
way back here from January 25th to
today. That's a long sort of price
action is climbing, but momentum is
slowing. So, let's see what's going to
happen. The EMAs are not crossing over.
One thing to note uh what I look for
also uh is if the um if the RSI jumps
above the the recent peaks it also
indicates that bullish uh momentum is
still alive and well. I'll show what I
mean. So what happens is if you have
price action that is climbing like this
and you have RSI that is diverging.
Okay, you can see that this peak right
here overcame this one. So that again
that is bull that is bullish. Okay,
because it just broke the downtrend.
It's a uh another uh entry long entry
signal u because price action has been
going up. RSI was d was bearish diverg
had bearish divergence in the RSI there
but RSI has popped above that and giving
you a buy signal. So at this particular
point in time you could be looking for a
new long entry.
All right. So, let's just move ahead
few more.
All right. So, what we're doing now is
we're going to be looking for a new uh
long entry. Hopefully, some divergence
here, bullish divergence in the RSI.
All right. So, price is falling, albeit
very slowly. Uh it's it's actually not
uh dropping off severely. uh like as for
example in in the in the recent uh weeks
here in 20 late 2025 here in March of
2024 it was sort of drifting uh to the
downside which uh is a good thing. It
means it's it's um it is bullish uh in
in the larger picture obviously bearish
in the short term.
So it's consolidating. All right. So
price action is consolidating. The the
uh moving averages are still all really
pointing to the northeast.
Okay,
that's a strong sellout. So that's that
in itself, this candle right here, tells
you that's a whole day of selling right
there. So that right there is a is a
bearish uh signal um at this particular
point in time. If I was long somewhere,
I don't know, back here, maybe I'd be
probably be selling for break even uh or
here for a small profit, whatever it
might be. That kind of candle uh would
tell me personally as well as you have
some of the EMAs crossing over that it's
time to get out of the positions because
more selling is likely ahead. Let's see.
There it is. Okay,
so now at this particular point in time,
all of our moving averages have crossed
over. Now they're all pointing
downwards, the five, the 11, and the 18.
Now, we're waiting for uh one last
example, which will look for hopefully a
nice bullish divergence in the RSI to to
uh try and find our next long entry. So,
let's keep moving forward.
And again, I'm watching this live just
like you. I don't recall exactly what's
going to happen.
All right, so the five is now
threatening to cross over the 11. The 18
is still pointing downwards, which is
bearish. Uh we didn't have any kind of
divergence. We had sort of a Vbottom
here. RSI just bounced off. It still
hasn't gotten to an overbought
territory. If the RSI overcomes 60 or 65
here, which is this uh recent high peak
right here, that would be bullish. Okay?
So, we'd be looking for maybe a pullback
in the price action before we go long,
but it hasn't done that yet. So, we're
watching the RSI to see if it pops above
these recent peaks. That will be a
bullish buy signal, and then we're going
to be looking for a trigger for entry at
that point. Okay. So there we go. All
right. So here we are. We have reached
just barely above those peaks. We have a
crossover. So this is a great example of
a particular point in time where you
could either a take a long entry here or
wait for a pullback because you have a
buy signal. All right. And essentially a
buy trigger allin one. The five and the
11 have uh the five has crossed over the
11. The five and 11 have sloped upwards.
18 is just barely starting to flatten
out, which I'll try to zoom in on.
And uh the RSI has gotten above these
peaks just barely. These were at uh 60
61 62 and uh at the pop here, this has
gotten to about just 64 65. So real
granular here. Uh but uh granularity is
important if you're going to be trading
uh day overday. So you can either take
on a position here long or wait for a
pullback. Let's see how it works out.
Maybe you set your stops down here. Now
start to raise them because if you are
long, you're going higher.
Excellent. Awesome. Okay, so you get the
point. Uh I hope. And let's uh hop all
the way out to where we are today.
Okay,
so this is November 6th, Thursday. I
don't have the updated price action. It
is another selling day here on November
7th, Friday. Uh but this uh price action
is updated right now until uh the uh the
6th November. What you can see here is
that um right off the bat um momentum
loss uh if we're going to be examining
this sort of uh on a more granular uh
basis, let me just kind of pull up the
drawing tool here. And you can see that
price action was climbing. Okay, we had
uh a pretty bearish divergence momentum.
So momentum loss as price got up here.
There's going to be folks who are left
uh holding the bag. But look how
extended the price action. Price action
was up here on like 20 October 28th,
29th, but look how far that price action
is extended from the 18th. So again,
you've got uh bearish momentum on the
RSI plus you've got um the price action
making a higher high than here. Uh that
would tell you that risk is very high
for some type of pullback or selloff
right here on October 29th. And that's
exactly what's been happening.
All right. So, let me just erase these
and we will wrap it up. Let me zoom in a
little bit.
Okay. So, the five has now crossed over
just barely. The 11, which is now
they're both pointing downwards. The 18
as of yesterday, the 6th of November, is
still pointing upwards. So, that is
bullish on a larger time frame. That's a
good thing. Uh, but if that starts to
flatten out or curl over, that's going
to be very bearish. So, at this
particular point in time, we're going to
be looking for some type of
consolidation uh going into November and
likely a small rally sometime in mid to
late November into early December uh
with uh the QQQ and TKQ QLD uh coming
back upwards uh threatening to try and
take out that high of around $632 per
share. So, I hope that helps in your
trading strategy. Uh good luck and do be
careful out there.